So we're talking about security.
We talked about SSH,
we talked about firewalls.
We talked about the importance of
keeping your software up to date.
We talked a bit about two factor
authentication that doesn't really come
into play as much on the server.
And we talked about the VPN.
And a VPN is a virtual private network,
which allows you to say like, hey,
I trust all these devices, but
within my network we're gonna throw
all these massive walls and barriers.
To make sure that nobody
outside can get it and
we make it really really onerous
to try to break into our network.
That way it cuts out on
kind of the negotiation,
you have to have security where security
is always wants to lock things down.
Where's you as Sin engineer
while access to things.
So it's always a trade-off for
making constantly.
And before getting the firewalls,
we have to understand what a port is.
A port just is a communication and
point that maps through specific
processor network service.
Ports are amazing because we talked
earlier about the IP addresses and
how there's a finite
number of IP addresses.
But even so, without ports,
we'd run out IP addresses much faster.
So a port allows us to have multiple
services on one IP address,
even thaosands of services
on one IP address.
Now if you wanna see the well known ports,
and there are some ports that are usually
reserved or well-known,
we can take a look at those.
So we'll say less.
And we're using less
here because it's a lot.
So we wanna go through slowly.
Any familiar ports in there?
SSH, 22, yeah,
it's usually reserved for SSH.
Now, more of my old school people
out there know what FTP is,
Port 21, very familiar.
Telnet, yeah, that's a throwback.
I think it still exists, but I don't know
if it's worth going into in this class.
Let's see, look at that, port 80,
the most popular port in the world.
That's what the Internet runs on,
is port 80 in your browser.
Not a lot of people know that.
And I won't go through the whole thing
because it goes and goes and goes and
goes and goes and goes and goes and goes.
But these are all well-known
ports that other companies or
general practice they tend to use.
You can still use them but you run into
something called a port collision?
If there's already another port,
that's why we usually use port 3000,
that's not reserved for anything.
We use port 8000 or 8080,
something like that.
But really there's thaosands and thaosands
of ports, if your odds of running to
collision if you pick a high enough
number, you're usually pretty good.
Port 443 HBS, yeah,
that's what the Internet runs on.
So, ports are an opening in your computer.
So you can't connect to your
computer without some sort of port.
You connect to an IP address that
doesn't really tell you anything,
you have to give it a port as well.
Ports and open ports are one of
the more I won't say dangerous, but
things you have to be aware of.
So let's take a look at our open ports.
We're gonna use a program called nmap.
So sudo apt install nmap and
you can do this on your machine,
you can do this on your server,
it actually doesn't matter.
And then run nmap against
your droplet's IP, and
it'll give you a list of your open ports.
All right, let's do it together.
So for this one, I'm actually
gonna do it on my local machine,
I think I have nmap installed, I do.
Make that bigger.
So I need my droplets IP and
I have not used this droplet
enough usually over time I can
memorize it my IP address but
it's been a while so let me pull this
one up here and get my IP address
I'm just going to run
Nmap against my server,
and it'll tell me which ports
are open on my droplet.
Let me just clear that out so
it'll be a little easier to read.
And there, it's showing the ports that
are open on my server, right now, port 22.
What's port 22?
>> SSH.
>> SSH so port 22 is always gonna be open.
Port 80?
What's port 80?
>> HTTP.
>> HTTP, yeah,
it's always gonna be open as well.
Port 3000, why is that open?
>> Node.
>> Node, that's right.
But it shouldn't be open, because
we don't need port 3000 to be open,
because nginx is actually
intercepting all those.
So we only want requests to port 22 for
SSH, port 80.
So what we need to do is close port 3000,
which opened by default,
because our node server opened it up.
So let's talk about how to do that.